Hello and welcome back.
In this lecture I want to talk about the observer pattern in the Java YouTube package.
So the Java implementation the observer pattern is so useful that Java contains an implementation of
it in its packages.
Told you it was popular and useful and that's why Java has its own version.
It's quite similar to are the one I just talked about in the last lecture on the subject in The Observer
interfaces but it gives you a lot of functionality out of the box.
You can also implement either a push or a pull style of update to your observers understand the difference
here.
Normally the observer is a push.
We notify all of our observers when there's a change a pull is when the observer would ask for the information
in Java allows you to implement either style the observable class and the observable observer interface
make up the pattern the observable class plays the role of the subject in the Java package Java dot
you tell instead of the methods attach detach and notify.
For example Java uses an observer for registration the lead observer for UN registration and notify
observers for notifying all for an object to become an observer.
You have to implement the observer interface so what you have to do is you have to call the an observer
on any observable object and then to remove yourself as an observer.
You just call the Daily Observer again register and de register.
You just implement that observer level interface and you immediately can be an observer by calling these
methods for the observable to send notifications.
You need to be observable by extending the Java that you still observable superclass.
All right.
So you must first call the set changed method to signify that state has changed in your object.
Then you call one of to notify observer methods either notify observers with no parameters or notify
observers with an object.
For an observer to receive notifications it must implement the update method.
The signature of the method is a bit different than what I explained earlier.
When you implement your own design on observable if you want to push data to the observers you can pass
the data as a data object to the notify observers ARG method.
That's one that takes a parameter.
If not then the observer has to pull the data it wants from the observable object passed to it the set
change method is used to signify that the state has changed.
As I mentioned when notify observers is called it should updates its observers if notify observers is
called without first calling a set changed.
The observers will not be notified and that's an important distinction.
You need to call set change for notifications to work.
You may also want to use the clear change method which sets the chain state back to false and this has
changed method.
Also you may want to call which tells you the current state of the changed flag.
It basically comes down to this.
I don't cover the Java implementation a lot of detail but because it does have some issues so the observations
on the implementation it's not widely used.
Its implementation is really simple and restrictive and that's why in this class we're going to focus
on implementing our own OBS observe design pattern.
One issue is the observable as a class so you have to subclass it.
What that means is you can not add onto the observable behavior to an existing class that already extends
another superclass.
So that will limit its reuse potential.
And again the whole reason we're using design patterns is for software reuse.
So if you can't reuse it that's definitely going to be a negative and that's one reason why we don't
focus on the Java implementation.
There's also no observable interface so you cannot create your own implementation that plays well with
the Java built in observer API.
You do not have the option of swapping out the Java utility plantation for another say a new multi threaded
implementation.
You just can't do that observer will may serve your needs if you can extend the Java you tell observer
but on the other hand more often than not you're going to need to create your own implementation.
And that's why we focus on that in this class.
You should understand what I mentioned the previous lectures about how the observed pattern is implemented
and also its purpose.
Feel free to check out the Java plantation to play around with it but we're going to focus on implementing
our own and so in the next lecture I'll provide a concrete example of implementing the observe design
pattern traditionally using your own implementation.
Thank you.